1. Keys:

If it looks confusing to you, check this tutorial first:
http://notaz.atspace.com/pico_tut/

There are no default settings.
When you start key configuration mode, black screen with dark-red squares will
appear. Also there will be little 'control' on the top with the function
name in it, and arrows on the corners of it. You can tap on these corners to
select a function. You can also tap on these squares to bind that function to
them. This way you can associate touchpad areas with game-controls or functions.
I also made a small square in every corner of the screen to be used as a virtual
button for some function, like save state. You can bind it as you like. To
bind phone buttons, simply select the function you need, and press a button
you want. To unbind any key or touchpad area, simply push or tap it again.

When finished, select 'done' and press any key. You can also press 'Power'
to exit.

You need to bind 'pause emu' function to be able exit game when ROM is loaded.
It is bound to 'back' button by default.

2. Main Settings:

Here you can set the orientation of screen and the drawing mode. The "fit"
option will scale the image so it better fits in the screen, but some detail
will be lost. "center" displays the game at the center of the screen, but
non-fitting parts are not visible then. "fit2" is simmilar to "fit" but is
a bit more stretched (fit modes are only meaningful in 0 or 180 rotation
modes).

"Fast renderer" enables faster rendering method, but it works only with some
games (some other have serious glitches or even hang).

"Accurate timing" is needed for some games to run (like Red Zone). It should
be kept off for all other games, because it slows emulation down. Some games
also need this option for proper sound, so enable this if game has any
glitches.

"Accurate sprites" fixes sprite priority problems, for example if game
character is in front of or behind some object it should not be, this option
should fix it. This option does not work in "Fast renderer" mode.

"Show FPS" shows game frames per second in format XX/YY, where XX is the
number of frames shown per previous second, and YY is the number of frames
emulated, but not necessarily shown. By calculating YY-XX you get the number
of skipped frames per second.

3. Sound settings:

Sound emulation is very picky on CPU power (in most cases sound alone uses
more CPU power than everything else altogether), but it is still possible to
play some games. When using sound, the recommended display modes are "fit 0"
and "fit 180", because these are the fastest ones. Also try "Alternative
renderer", but it might cause graphical glitches. You must use auto frameskip
when using sound, or else you will get stuttering sound. Also, it is
recommended to exit all other non-vital apps (you can use SMan for this),
disable bluetooth and any other devices your phone may have. I also noticed
that simply connecting the phone battery charger strangely slows everything
down.

"Enable sound" tries to enable sound output on your device, but that alone is
not enough to get sound. You need to enable the sound chips below:
"Z80" is secondary CPU in genesis and is mostly used to control the other 2
sound chips. So if you disable Z80, sound will be lost in most games, with
some exceptions like Sonic1. It is possible to use Z80 for other things,
some games do that and Z80 must be enabled to run them at all.

"YM2612" is a fairly complex Frequency Modulation (FM) sound synthesis chip.
It was the main sound output device in genesis and is horrible CPU hog when
is tried to be emulated in software. Disabling it gives large speed
improvement, but most of the sound is lost.

"SN76496" is programmable sound generator (PSG) chip, used for various sound
effects and music elements.

Note: if you change sound settings AFTER loading a ROM, you may need to reset
game to get sound. This is because most games initialize sound chips on
startup, and this data is lost when sound chips are being enabled/disabled.

4. Misc:

"6 button pad" will enable 6 button gamepad emulation and will add additional
X, Y, Z and MODE actions to key configuration.
Note: if you enable this, games may detect that and use different button
configuration, for example A ("high punch") will change to "low punch" in
Mortal Kombat and you will need to bind X for "high punch".

"gzip save states" enables gzip (similar to ordinary zip, but a little
different) compression on your save states to save space. The compression
ratio is 50-90%, so it's worth to enable this.

"Use SRAM saves" option enables emulation of batery-backed save RAM some game
cartridges had. RPG games used it alot, but there were some others too, like
Sonic 3. If this is enabled, <ROMname>.srm files are generated when you exit
the emulator or load another ROM. Format is compatible with other popular
emulators (like Gens and Fusion).

"Region" lets you set the region of emulated genesis machine.


5. Frameskip:

"Auto"  option tries to run the game in it's original speed by skipping next
        frame if the previous was rendered too slow.
"0"     displays every frame, thus game runs very slow, sound skips.
"1"     skips every other frame. Use this for a game which is smoother, but a bit
        too slow (actually depends on display mode you use).
"2"     also makes the game smoother, but it will be too fast in most areas.
"4","8" similar to above, but skips more frames and often becomes choppy.
